{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Water, Water, Everywhere! by ReadWorks Water can be found throughout the earth, both in living things and in the physical environment. It is in our bodies, in the bodies of animals and insects, and within all plants. Most of the water on earth is contained in our oceans. The rest of the water on earth is under ground, in rivers, and in the atmosphere, among other places. The Water Cycle Water is constantly moving on, above, and below the surface of the earth as it changes states between liquid, vapor, and ice. This movement of water on, above, and below the surface of the earth is known as the water cycle. The study of the movement and distribution of water on earth is called "hydrology." Water in the Oceans Over 70 percent of the total surface of our planet is covered with water. About 96.5 percent of it is found in the oceans. Although there are no physical boundaries separating one ocean from the other, five oceans have been demarcated and named. The Pacific Ocean is the largest in terms of surface area, followed by the Atlantic, Indian, Antarctic and Arctic Oceans. These oceans, although connected, separate the seven major continents. The Pacific Ocean separates Asia, Australia, and their surrounding islands from North and South America. The Atlantic Ocean separates the two American continents from Europe and Africa. The title of this text, "Water, Water Everywhere," comes from Samuel Taylor Coleridge's poem: Water, water, everywhere, And all the boards did shrink. Water, water everywhere, Nor any drop to drink. It tells the story of a ship stuck near Antarctica. Despite being surrounded by water on all sides, the sailors were dying of thirst. Although the ocean's seawater supports other life forms such as whales, sea turtles and many types of fish, it is saline and unfit for drinking by humans. On average, this water contains 3.5 percent salt. Drinking this would result in more water getting excreted from the body to drain out all the salt. Fresh Water ReadWorks.org \'b7 \'a9 2014 ReadWorks\'ae, Inc. All rights reserved. Water, Water, Everywhere! Where do humans get their drinking water from if over 96 percent of Earth's water is not potable? We get it from one of the many freshwater sources that have a lower concentration of salt and other dissolved solids than seawater. This water is also called "sweet water." It exists in many forms on and under the earth's surface. Sixty-nine percent is frozen in glaciers and ice caps, 20 percent forms the earth's lakes, and the rest can be found in other freshwater sources such as the atmosphere, rivers, swamps, and marshes. The amount of fresh water in a given area depends on a number of factors related to the water cycle. For example, the amount of water in rivers and lakes is always changing due to inflows and outflows. According to the United States Geological Survey, inflows to these water bodies come from precipitation, overland runoff, groundwater seepage, and tributary inflows. Outflows from lakes and rivers include evaporation, movement of water into groundwater, and withdrawals by people. People use up a lot of surface freshwater for various purposes, including agriculture, industry, and recreation. Any Drop to Drink Water is crucial in supporting life. When we study other planets or their moons, we look for traces of water to see if the place could have supported life. It is so important that many people fear if it continues to become scarcer, wars may be fought over water in the future!}